what burr wants to find out is something
which might seem rather bizarre where
the colors can change our sense of time
in order to do this here set up three
color pots one white one red and one
blue the white pod is used as a control
to compare to the red and the blue okay
are you ready okay so what we're gonna
do is we want to get a sense of how long
you think a minute less each of the
hundred and fifty people taking part
today are asked to stand in a pod bathed
in color and give a sign when they think
a minute has passed so I'm gonna turn
you around I want you to face the wall
and I want you to turn back around as
soon as you think a minutes gone past
[Music]
so here we're looking to see if someone
is bathed and read it might increase
their sense of anxiety and whenever
we're in a sense of anxiety we perform
less well on pretty much anything and in
contrast to blue where people get a
sense of calmness we'll find out if
that's true because if it's true people
be better able to judge time in fact
they might even think a minute last two
minutes who knows a hundred and fifty
people young and old men and women all
asked to estimate how long a minute took
under different lights after analysis
the color pod experiment showed some
rather interesting results so this
result for me personally was a bit of a
was a bit of a surprise in fact I had a
bet on it and I've lost because I
thought red would do the exact opposite
I thought if you in a state of arousal
time would go very quickly but in fact
it doesn't just the opposite it turns
out that color can speed up time
[Music]
but it's not the color red that does it
if they're in a blue part a minute last
11 seconds shorter than if they're in a
red pod now 11 seconds is in a
phenomenally long time and yet all they
were doing is surrounded by blueness and
the perception of time sped up so color
does significantly affect your
perception of the passage of time one
possibility is that red is altering our
state of arousal it's making us highly
aware of our environment so that would
be very advantageous in a
fight-or-flight response where you want
to be really noticing that things are
happening around you in a sense you want
time to slow down so maybe that's one
possibility for why if you embed
yourself in red time actually slows down
in your mind
you